Echinops
In the novels, echinopsae are depicted as animals (not man-eating plants, as in The Witcher). They are described as monsters covered in long and very sharp spines. They can shoot these up to a distance of ten feet. On impact, the spines shatter and the pieces work their way ever deeper into the body of the victim. Their spines are so long that when they are immobile, echinops resemble clumps of grass.
Lesser Hedgehog Tenrec, a mammal in the real world.
The Witcher
Echinopsae in the game are huge, carnivorous plants, similar to an Archespore.
Journal Bestiary entry
"Echinopsae are monstrous plants born of curses which grow in places where terrible crimes have been committed if the crime in question was never atoned for. The beasts try to take their vengeance on criminals, but they do not spare the lives of innocents who haplessly enter their territory."
Location
Cave under the city walls in the Outskirts
Swamp (both day and night)
Swamp cemetery
Odo's garden during The Secret Garden quest
Source
In Chapter I, an old woman in the Outskirts (in the Farming village) will tell Geralt a tale of Echinops in exchange for food, she may also tell about Ghoul depending on the food you give her, giving her plant based foods make her tell about it. The conversation does result in a bestiary entry. (Note that you have choose between her telling you about plants, or a story. The story option results in receiving information about Echinops). She always tells about the ghouls first, after that conversation enter a building and leave to reset her and give her some more food to learn about echinops. She can also give glossary info on herbs such as Verbena.
In Chapter II, the book "Curses and the Cursed" sold by The Antiquary located in the Merchant Street.
Strong Silver style is the most effective method of dispaching the Echinops.
Fire is highly effective, so a torch can be an effective weapon in this case.
Curses and the Cursed
The Witcher: Monster Slayer
Common echinops appears in The Witcher: Monster Slayer and is classified as a common class hybrid. It is vulnerable to silver and kinetic damage. The monster inhabits dense forests and is active at dusk. According to the bestiary, it is quite dangerous, despite its inconspicuous appearance. This description is only partially accurate, as the echinops is placed at the lowest difficulty level, along with the nekker or the common weremole. The monster is depicted as a large, hairless creature covered with short spikes. Its body and trunk resemble an echidna or an armadillo. Rather than using its spikes for combat, echinops instead attack with its sharp claws or by rolling towards the opponent.
Trivia
Echinops (from Ancient Greek: "hedgehog-face") is a name of an animal and a plant real-world genera.