Lambert
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix series
Love questions like that. Am I holding up? What? My dick? This is shit, Geralt, and you know it.
- Lambert to Geralt
Lambert was a witcher from the School of the Wolf, active in the 13th century. He was one of the last witchers to be trained within the walls of Kaer Morhen.
Trained by Vesemir, Lambert was known for his biting tongue and was often rude in conversation, particularly towards Triss Merigold, whom he addressed only by her last name—a habit that greatly irritated the sorceress. He did not have much interest in politics.
Quick Answers
Biography
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Early life
Lambert was born to an alcoholic father who regularly beat both him and his mother and each night, they prayed for the man's death. They nearly got their wish when, one evening, his father lost his way returning from the tavern and stumbled into a nekker nest. However Vesemir was passing nearby and saved his life, claiming the Law of Surprise as his reward. This unexpected reward turned out to be Lambert, who was then taken to Kaer Morhen and began training as a witcher—a fate he would later resent, having had no say in the matter.
His final test before becoming a fully fledged witcher was the Trial of the Medallion, where Lambert and other young recruits had to work together to activate their medallions. The group sailed across the pond, which ended in one recruit drowning. The remaining recruits navigated through the caverns, where they encountered a cyclops named Old Speartip. Unfortunately, the cyclops slew several of the young boys, including Voltehre. After climbing Troll's Head, they encountered a trio of rock trolls, whom they managed to avoid, before reaching the Circle of Elements. There, Lambert retrieved his medallion and proved himself worthy to set out on The Path.
At one point while on the Path, Lambert accepted a contract on the Ogre of Ellander. He was to lift the curse from it, but while working the contract, he met a witcher from the School of the Cat named Aiden, who had been hired to kill the ogre. After the ogre killed Lambert's employer, he and Aiden struck a deal. They killed the ogre together and then split the reward. After this, the pair worked together frequently and became good friends, with Lambert later describing Aiden as the best man he'd ever met.
Eskel's Child Surprise
Around the late 1240s or early 1250s, Lambert was at Kaer Morhen for the winter with Eskel and Vesemir when Deidre Ademeyn, Eskel's child surprise, arrived at the keep seeking shelter. Not long after, Deidre's brother Merwin arrived with a host of mercenaries and the sorceress Sabrina Glevissig. Lambert went into the valley to prevent them from entering Kaer Morhen. When Merwin attempted to pass with the mercenaries, Lambert tried to stop them, but archespores sprouted from the ground, causing Merwin to flee. Lambert then made camp in the valley to deter any repeat attempts and to deal with the archespore infestation. He was soon approached by Geralt. Lambert explained the situation to Geralt and then sent him on his way. When Geralt returned to get Lambert's opinion, Lambert said they should teach Merwin and Sabrina a lesson. In his view, they involved the witchers by showing up at their keep. He also didn't want to hand over Deidre, considering how Eskel would feel. Later, when all the Wolf witchers gathered to decide on a course of action, Lambert said he didn't care for Deidre personally but that the "blue blood and witch" should learn that royal authority doesn't extend to Kaer Morhen. The witchers then made their decision.
If the witchers chose to help Deidre: Having decided to help Deidre, Lambert accompanied her and the others to Merwin's camp to resolve matters peacefully, as Deidre would give up her claim to Caingorn, with the necessary documents drafted on the spot. But after repeated goading and threats from Sabrina, Deidre attacked in a fury, killing the mercenary captain Merton Bringgs and accidentally slicing Eskel across the face. Lambert and the other witchers were then forced to kill the rest of the mercenaries. Lambert later supported a wounded Eskel when they returned to the keep. Deidre, regretful for what occurred, left the keep and the witchers never spoke of her again.
If the witchers chose not to help Deidre: Not wanting to risk Kaer Morhen being exposed to King Henselt's ire, the witchers decided they could not help Deidre. While the others returned to the keep, Lambert remained at his camp. The witchers never spoke of Deidre again.
End of game canon content.
Training Ciri
Around autumn of 1265, Lambert was at Kaer Morhen to wait out the winter, along with Vesemir, Coën, and Eskel, when Geralt arrived with Ciri and informed them that Ciri was their destiny. Lambert and the others then spent months training Ciri like a witcher. Lambert told the girl that she would one day go on the long balance with a safety device and that she was being a sissy and a wimp.
During her training, Ciri entered three trances. This worried the witchers greatly, especially after the last trance, in which Ciri prophesied Coën and Geralt's deaths. Lambert remarked that if the prophecy was true, they would both be killed by some very jagged monsters. Realizing they needed someone with more experience in this, the witchers decided to call on the help of a mage. While the first option was Yennefer, this was shut down as Geralt didn't wish to talk to the raven-haired sorceress, so Triss Merigold was called on instead.
When Triss arrived, Lambert accompanied Eskel and Geralt as they greeted her, though he acted rudely towards Triss, mockingly smiling and calling her "Merigold." He then took Ciri with him to train on the pendulum. He corrected and criticized her when she made mistakes, but when she succeeded in the exercise, he congratulated her and told her to do it again to ensure it wasn't a fluke.
During Triss' stay, she inadvertently learned Lambert and the other witchers weren't that great at raising a young girl: they didn't really know how to fashion clothes, gave Ciri special special mushrooms and elixirs that were meant to accelerate both her physical and hormonal progression as a witcher (but put her at risk of depriving her of any womanly attributes as she grew up), and didn't consider that Ciri would have periods. When the witchers were confronted by Triss regarding all the bruises Ciri had caused by their training equipment, Lambert told her to calm down, but Triss shut him down, telling him not to call her "Merigold" and preferably not to speak at all. Shen then brought up the fact they hadn't realized Ciri was having periods, making all the men rather sheepish on the realization. This was further cemented when Ciri appeared in a dress and proclaimed she would not be doing any physical training while she was indisposed, making Lambert realize she was actually a princess after all.
When Triss explained further that Ciri should not be given as many mushrooms anymore, Lambert hid his embarrassment a little less well than Coën and Geralt did. Triss also mocked him, suggesting he wouldn't find it too difficult to learn how to milk a goat. He brazenly stared at Triss's breasts when she explained why the mushrooms and elixirs should be reduced, which caused Eskel to stare daggers at Lambert.
On the night of Midinváerne, everyone at Kaer Morhen sat in the great hall, with Coën and Ciri sitting separately from Lambert and the rest. Triss explained she would not take Ciri to the Chapter as Geralt may have feared, prompting a snort from Lambert as he turned his face away. When Triss explained that Ciri was a Source, Lambert objected, saying she was just an ordinary child and that Triss was exaggerating with her talk of destiny, sources, and spells. He stated they would train her as they would a boy and admitted that they'd had some problems, but that thanks to Triss, these were now sorted.
In response, Triss told Vesemir to tell Lambert to stay quiet, to which Lambert retorted that she acted as if she knew everything, but in fact, she didn't. He cast the Aard Sign at the fireplace and explained that despite it requiring little magical capability, Ciri couldn't cast it or any other signs. After Triss explained that a Source doesn't fully control their abilities and that they could be dangerous, he told her she was exaggerating. He was then told by Geralt to stop calling Triss "Merigold" and that Triss wasn't exaggerating, as he had seen what Ciri's mother was capable of.
When the witchers explained why Triss was there, they mentioned that Ciri had drunk some White Seagull by accident and fallen into a trance, from which she started speaking in a strange voice. When Triss asked what Ciri had said, Lambert told her it was gibberish. Triss responded by saying he should've understood perfectly, then told him to stay quiet. Eskel explained that Lambert was right in this case, as Ciri had really been speaking incomprehensibly the first time, only the second and third times did they understand what the entranced Ciri was saying. With Ciri unaware, Triss had her slip into another trance before the witchers to try and learn what was speaking through the princess. However, all they ended up learning was that whatever it was was so strong, they needed a more experienced mage to help, namely Yennefer.
With that realization, Lambert and the rest continued Ciri's training until the valley would be clear for them all to travel again in the spring, with Lambert supervising her on the comb and congratulating her for doing a good job.
One night, when the witchers and Triss were in the great hall with Ciri in bed, they discussed the state of the world, with Lambert saying he'd be traveling south towards Sodden, Mahakam, and Angren, as there would be plenty of work there after armies had passed through. When Triss got annoyed with the witchers' attitude towards the world's decline, Lambert replied that it was a popular saying used by all sorts of people lately, and suggested that Triss cut to the chase and present her proposal on how to prevent it.
When the conversation turned to discuss what happened at Sodden Hill, with Triss annoyed at the witchers' indifference, Ciri entered the room and chimed in, saying she would stand with Triss on the hill to fight Nilfgaard for causing her grandmother's death. Lambert scolded her, nothing she shouldn't meddle in adult conversations, which caused Ciri to retaliate that she thought she was being trained to kill, as she wanted to kill the winged helmet knight for making her afraid. Geralt admonished her on this viewpoint, telling her they were training her in order to save lives, not to kill out of fear and hatred.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Geralt's Return
In 1270 Lambert was at Kaer Morhen with the other witchers and Triss, who had been there a lot after Geralt's death. They were busy training Leo, an orphaned boy Vesemir had brought back to the keep, and repairing the fortress. Lambert and Eskel were supposed to repair a staircase, but they postponed the task. One day, Lambert was dueling with Leo when a strange magical storm came into the valley. Leo took advantage of Lambert's distraction and hit him in the gut. Lambert then soundly beat Leo but told him he had promise. Vesemir and Eskel returned from their hunt in the valley with an unconscious Geralt.
Two days later, Lambert was still at the keep with the rest when they came under attack by Salamandra, who were accompanied by a mage, Savolla, controlling a frightener, alongside Azar Javed and the Professor. Facing several different breaches, Lambert and the rest divided into groups to try and contain the situation, with Lambert trying to help take out the frightener. While he received some injuries, the witchers managed to defeat it, but not before the lab was attacked and the witchers' secrets taken.
After the bandits left, having got what they came for, Lambert looked after a wounded Triss. Geralt then came to him and informed him of Leo's death, to which Lambert said they'd avenge him. He also told Geralt to make a potion for Triss and to kill any Salamandra stragglers he encountered. He later explained the various witcher fighting styles to Geralt, who was suffering from amnesia. After Triss had recovered, the witchers held a funeral for Leo and then split up in search of Leo's killers, with Lambert traveling to Kaedwen.
Life on the Path
After the defeat of Salamandra at the hands of Geralt, Lambert traveled to Kovir. There, one of the contracts he took was on a giant that had been attacking merchants. It turned out that there was no giant at all—just a fat giant Troll—and the real culprits were some bandits. Lambert killed the bandits to keep the roads safe and then killed the troll to collect the bounty.
While traveling, he was also ambushed by a pair of bandits. Lambert used the Axii sign to make one bandit shoot the other, who then hanged himself. He later learned of the death of his friend Aiden. According to rumors he heard, Aiden had been killed by Jad Karadin and his band in cold blood. This news led Lambert to set off in search of the culprits and avenge Aiden's death.
His search took him to Novigrad, where he learned that Lund, one of Karadin's band, was located. In order to get close to Lund, he accepted a contract on an ekimmara.
If Following the Thread is started: When he found the vampire and engaged it in battle, Geralt appeared. Together, they killed the monster and went to collect their reward, with Lambert saying that Geralt had earned half. Lambert and Geralt then confronted Lund, and Lambert immediately began to question him about Karadin's whereabouts. When Lund ran, Lambert gave chase, leaving Geralt to deal with the guards.
Upon cornering Lund, Lambert questioned him again about Karadin's whereabouts, but Lund could only tell the witcher where Vienne was. After receiving that information, and after Geralt caught up with them, Lambert killed Lund and told Geralt to meet him at the Seven Cats Inn. There, he explained why he had killed Lund and what had happened to Aiden. Together, they then confronted Vienne. From her, they learned where Hammond and Selyse were.
If they spared Vienne: After receiving the information, Geralt told Lambert to leave her be. Lambert agreed, commenting that it was better to leave her as she was.
If they killed Vienne: Having learned what he needed, Lambert then went to kill Vienne, who called for help from some nearby elves. Lambert and Geralt killed the elves along with Vienne.
After receiving the information they needed, Lambert and Geralt split up, with Lambert going after Selyse in Tretogor. They agreed to meet back after they gathered the information. Without Geralt present to stand up for Selyse, Lambert killed her after questioning her. He then went to Novigrad to meet up with Geralt. There, they exchanged the information they had gathered and set off to confront Jad Karadin.
Once they confronted him, Lambert told Geralt to do the talking, as he intended to throttle Karadin. The witchers then talked about Karadin's apparent family, his new identity as a merchant, and his version of events surrounding Aiden's death.
If they spared Jad Karadin: After hearing everything Karadin had to say, Geralt told Lambert to leave, much to Lambert's anger. Lambert expressed that he didn't know if he could ever forgive Geralt for that. Once they left Karadin's estate, he demanded an explanation. Geralt simply said that he didn't feel Karadin deserved to be killed in cold blood, and that if Lambert felt differently, he could always go back without him. Lambert replied that he felt like beating Geralt but then said goodbye and walked away.
If they killed Jad Karadin: After hearing everything Karadin had to say, Geralt told Lambert that it was his friend and his vengeance, and that Lambert could do what he wanted to do. Lambert replied that he had been waiting a long time for this. The witchers then fought and killed Karadin. After the fight, Lambert asked if Geralt wanted to talk about it, but he declined. They then said their goodbyes and parted ways.
Curing Uma
Lambert returned to Kaer Morhen and was there when Yennefer arrived, ordering the witchers on what to do to prepare for Geralt's arrival with Uma, who they believed could be Ciri under a curse. Lambert was tasked with enhancing the phylactery with power from the Circle of Elements. When Geralt arrived, he and Lambert set off together, effectively taking the same path as the Trial of the Medallion. Upon reaching the place of power at the end, they charged the phylactery and talked before returning to the keep.
That evening, the witchers and Yennefer spent time drinking and talking while Vesemir took Uma into the mountains to try a method he knew to lift the curse. Yennefer explained to the others that she intended to subject Uma to the first part of the Trial of the Grasses, to which Lambert angrily objected.
If Geralt opted to get drunk with the rest: Lambert spent the rest of the evening drinking with Geralt and Eskel after Yennefer went to bed, getting up to crazier and crazier antics as they got drunker. At one point, a drunk Lambert got the idea to invite over the Lodge of Sorceresses. The trio proceeded to put on some dresses and activated Yennefer's megascope, but accidentally connected to Hierarch Hemmelfart. Breaking the connection, they were reprimanded by Yennefer, who told them to go to bed.
The next morning, Uma was subjected to the Trial of the Grasses and revealed not to be Ciri, but Avallac'h, who revealed where Geralt could find Ciri. After some strategizing, Geralt set off to gather allies while the others prepared for the coming battle with the Wild Hunt.
Battle of Kaer Morhen
With the battle soon approaching, Lambert worked to repair a ballista they had in the courtyard. When Geralt and Ciri arrived, they held a council in the great hall with everyone to decide on their plans, with Lambert joining the group that would help attack any enemies in the woods and close their portals. When the battle started, Lambert and the rest in the woods were forced to engage with Imlerith and his forces before being able to retreat to the keep.
If Geralt convinced Keira Metz to go to Kaer Morhen: During the battle, Lambert was nearly bested and killed by warriors of the Hunt but was rescued by Keira Metz. After the battle, he attended Vesemir's funeral and then left with Keira, having agreed to help her, and the two soon became romantically involved.
If Geralt got to Lambert in time to save him from the Wild Hunt: During the battle, Lambert was nearly bested and killed by warriors of the Hunt but was rescued by Geralt, who arrived in time to aid his brother. After the battle, Lambert attended Vesemir's funeral.
If Geralt didn't get to Lambert in time: During the battle, Lambert was bested and killed by warriors of the Hunt, as Geralt didn't manage to reach him in time. Lambert was burned on the same pyre as Vesemir.
The Witcher
Lambert appears in the main campaign of The Witcher, as well as The Price of Neutrality premium module.
In The Witcher, he is wandering around the ground floor of Kaer Morhen or busy in the courtyard for the duration of the Prologue. During The Price of Neutrality, he can be found staking out the ford nearest the camp, keeping the local archespore in check and making sure the unexpected guests do not suddenly try to enter the keep.
Journal entry
The young witcher I met at Kaer Morhen sure is quarrelsome and he has a biting tongue... He is rude, especially to Triss Merigold, who he addresses by her last name. I think at times he uses rudeness to express his fondness for someone.
The Price of Neutrality premium module journal entry
The young witcher is quarrelsome and has a biting tongue, though at times he uses rudeness to express his fondness for someone.
Associated quests
A Potion for Triss
Defending Kaer Morhen
The She-Wolf (The Price of Neutrality premium module)
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Lambert and another witcher, Berengar, appear in Geralt's dream at the beginning of the second game.
Associated quest
The Assassins of Kings (dream)
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Journal entry
If destiny truly chooses which boys become witchers, then in Lambert's case it had made a twisted, cruel choice. After hearing his story, Geralt had to admit that Lambert had every reason to be unenthused about the lot fate had granted him.
A chance encounter of two witchers hunting the same ekimmara turned into a tale of old friendship, murder, and vengeance. The moral of the story? Don't mess with Lambert.
Though Lambert made no secret of his hatred for Kaer Morhen, when the time came to stand in its defense, he did so without a second thought.
If Keira didn't go to Kaer Morhen and Geralt didn't save Lambert in time:
Sadly, during the battle, Lambert found himself overwhelmed by enemy forces. Relief came too late and he was cut down by the Wild Hunt's soldiers.
If Geralt convinced Keira to come to Kaer Morhen:
During this battle, he came within a hair's breadth of losing his life. Luckily, Keira arrived in the nick of time and together they held back his attackers.
It just might be that Lambert and Keira's later (and somewhat unexpected) relationship came about as a result of that moment, when they fought for survival at each other's side. It is also possible it was a simple matter of two attractive people taking a liking to each other. At any rate, only time could tell what would become of the couple.
Associated quests
The Battle of Kaer Morhen
The Final Trial
Following the Thread
Gwent: Old Pals
Kaer Morhen
No Place Like Home
Ugly Baby