Mère-Lachaiselongue Cemetery
Mère-Lachaiselongue Cemetery is large cemetery in Toussaint located between Beauclair Port and Francollarts. While the cemetery itself is rather large, with tombstones practically overlapping each other, there's only one crypt here.
Map description
At Belgaard Vineyard, a famous act of poisoning once occurred which took the lives of a large gang of bandits who were ransacking the area. The folk charged with cleaning up in the aftermath originally planned to burn the bodies, but one pious soul thought even rotten dung-diddlers such as they deserve better. He thus paid for their bodies to be laid to rest in a small cemetery: Mère-Lachaiselongue. Later, Sir Ramon of Gichon died a martyr's death here while trying to get rid of the bandits' constantly returning wraiths.
List of tombstones
Name
Tombstone inscription
Anabella and Gwidon de la Tourre
Art Patrons
Killed by a poison apple
Andrew Sto'ppa
Ducal intermediary
Love of Nilfgaardian spice biscuits
Antoine de Faint-Exuperly
Known as the Big Prince
1200-1244
Antonio Ekkles
A giant among men
Conveyer of deep thoughts
Arkadius Borovvik
Lived to a ripe old age
In fact, he lived so long, he died of boredom
Bartolomeo C'eslycky
Comedian
Could make even a dead fish laugh
Bartolomeo Novak
Brought smiles to people's faces
Caroleena Staheera
"What's the pleasure in slaughtering a weakling? If you wish to draw blood, draw it from a king."
Caroline Nyev'eglovska
Believed it was possible to reach a satisfying agreement with anyone. Died while negotiating with a charging fiend.
Charles Pyz'yack
Felt 60% was not enough, so he gave 61%. Behold the result.
Cinnga Krez'el
Artist and Alchemist
Could kill foes with a single gaze and stop time. Dreamed of traveling to other worlds
Conrrad Tomashckievich
Made up stories and bossed people around, when all he ever really wanted in life was to fly
Count Bartollo var Ochmann
"The night before keeps knocking, my head weeps from its constant stalking."
Dominique Gonsierovsky
Loved accounting tables. That was the death of her.
Gaspar "Daffi" Shymchak
Ladies' Man
Enjoyed walking the streets of Beauclair at night, belting out Nilfgaardian ballads
His diction put the most distinguished actors to shame
Gerome la Marten
Equerry to the duquessa
Gregor Sadinsky
Athlete extraordinaire
Liked to carry great weights, but got a little carried away
Igor von Sar'zynsky
Every inch an artist
Jacob de Chamois
b. 1186
Neither drank nor smoke, yet still up and died.
Good riddance. May the Prophet Lebioda give him a noogie in the afterlife.
Jacob Voznyackovsky
Might not have been the smartest, might not have been the fairest, but he always gave a solid 60%
Jymm Morrisonn
Conjuror. Half man, half lizard
Katrine Vladyka
The loveliest redheaded creature to ever walk upon Beauclair's soil
Kaytoni Kapustinsky
Knew how to brighten up even the cloudiest day
Be Prepared!
Krisof Lippka
Musician
Virtuoso in every key
Kritt the Petit
Famed host of afternoon salons, where games, bottled cheese and trampolining were the order of the day
Lenna de Manillani Grazia
Princess from a far-off land who could force light to bend to her will
Lucas Babb'yel
Honorary blood donor. Gave five liters to a vampire, then perished.
Lucas Slyvva
Mistook Belhaven for Roggeven
Warped time and space
Lucca Horr'zelsky
A "hockeyist."
Skated upon lakes, stopping others from knocking coal into special nets. Froze to death.
Lukas Schepankovsky
Died on his own blade while trying to show his knightly brethren his expert swordsmanship
Madeleine Sadd'kovska and Matias Bylsky
She a ballerina, he a voltigeur
Partied so hard, they perished from exhaustion
Magdallena Zy'yh
Writer
Stabbed to death by a jealous lover
Margaret Stzepcovska
Artiste
Died from an overextension of the mandibles, thinking she was a cow
Martin Blah'ha
"Told you I was sick."
Martin Mihalsky
Mage and artist
Could move mountains
Martin Pshybylovi'ch
Composer
In truth it was he who composed "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"
Martin Yanishevski
Master Armorer
Forger of the best plate this side of the Yaruga
Martina Lippins'ka
Engineer and pug lover
Solved the most obtuse technical problems in all the duchy with the grace of a ballerina
Mateo G'ollyck
The Wizard of Moo'cap Tower
Matiey Pyetrass
A sculptor of time and space
Mayo Mayevksy
Known as the "Gamer's Gamer"
Told things like they were before it was popular. That's what killed him.
Michael Novakovsky
Art patron
Stuck his big nose in everywhere
Monique Glyn'necka
One-legged dancer
Rumored to have been a succubus. Yet who's ever seen a succubus with only one hoof?
Natalie Mrooz
Duches Ademarta's court sorceress
Granted the wishes of the common folk
Ola
Her lies Ola, mother of Plegmund, taken from us too soon
Protect us, o Lebioda, from the torment of preprodcution!
Pablo O'Hotzky
"Do not be sad because of people. They will all die."
Pablo Vilcoss
Tilled the fields of Beauclair
Died to the sound of music
Spoke enthusiastic if ungrammatical Nilfgaardian
Paulla "Tekla" Lukievska
Alchemist and painter
Discovered a new species of hedgehog, Paulis Teklis
Pavel "Banana" Panasyuk
Creator of pumpkinball – a game popular in Angren, in which teams strive to toss pumpkins into baskets
Pavel Sasco
A man of small stature and enormous spirit
Was a hearty and fiery dancer. Sadly, he forgot to eat – and perished.
Pavel Svierchynsky
Traveler
Loved to come and go
Was killed by the children he abandoned
Peter Kryss'yk
Alchemist
Was able to raise the dead
Pierre Montcresson-Melleroy II
Bard, cook, ping-pong player
Primislav Staheera
So strenuously did he the hill descend, his nap thereafter did never end
Primislavus Voojc'yk
Heroic hunter of insects and pests
Spent his whole life exterminating bugs, now he lies in the earth among them
Rafael Yaky
A man who would never stoop, not even for peashont groshy
Roberto and Yustinna Malynosky
They loved each other to death
Sar'rah Gruemm'er
Left home and died
Sebastien Callemby
Leader of a hanse noted for its graceful movements
"Pain is fleeting, glory is forever"
Séverin Ervauville
Carpenter
"All I need's a sliver, and I can make you a better table than you've ever dreamed of!"
Stanilavus Yust
Produced a great deal and died of overproduction
Steeve "Steffy" Kny'bihlie
He was supposed to be a killer, but became an artist
Tomash Marhevkin
Warrior
Died fighting with word and blade
Urshulla Chapnic
Relentless in her pursuit of perfection
Associated quests
La Cage au Fou
Pomp and Strange Circumstance
Notable items
Casus Foederis
Regeneration potion formula
My Last Thought Before I Succumb to Sleep
Biography of the Vampire Regis, From the Quill of Dandelion
Trivia
This landmark references the very popular Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris in which are buried some of the greatest artists like Chopin, Molière, Jim Morrison, Oscar Wilde to name few. It is also a pun - "chaise" is French for chair or seat and is a not unfamiliar placename and surname in France, while a "chaise longue" or long chair is a kind of sofa. The pun is extended by replacing Père (Father) with Mère (Mother).
One of the tombstones belongs to Jymm Morrisonn, a reference to the famous singer and songwriter Jim Morrison. The inscription on the stone reads "Conjuror. Half man, half lizard", referring to the fact that one of Morrison's nicknames was "The Lizard King".
One of the tombstones belongs to Antoine de Faint-Exuperly, a reference to the famous French writer and aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The inscription reads The Big Prince 1200-1244, which refers to his famous children's book The Little Prince and the date to his actual death at 44 years old.
One of the tombstones belongs to Count Bartollo var Ochmann, a possible reference to Wiesław Ochman, a Polish tenor, who also has an in-game wine named after him, Count var Ochmann Shiraz.