Adda the White/Netflix series
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix series
Adda the White was the daughter of Foltest, king of Temeria. She was born a striga as a result of a curse cast by Ostrit, a local magnate who loved her mother, Adda of Temeria. When he learned of the incestuous relationship between the king and his sister, Ostrit tried to put a curse on the king and caused girl's transformation into a striga.
Biography
Cursed as a striga
Adda was born a striga as a result of a curse cast by Ostrit, who was jealous of her mother's incestuous relationship with her father. Ostrit tried to put a curse on Foltest, which unintentionally resulted in her mother's death and her becoming a striga, where growing inside Adda and feeding on her womb. For six years, Adda terrorized Vizima, killing its villagers. This only changed when Foltest's royal advisor, Triss Merigold sought out the help of renowned witcher Geralt of Rivia.
Geralt deduced from the wording of Ostrit's curse, that he would have to keep the striga out of her crypt until dawn in order to lift the curse. On the night of her final full moon as a striga, she rose from her crypt. Geralt had tied Ostrit to the bed upstairs in the ruined palace and left him behind. Adda, as a fully transformed striga, killed him, and then attacked Geralt. He tried to entrap her with silver chains, but to no avail; the striga broke free. A fight ensued, which ultimately resulted in Adda being knocked unconscious. While she was down, Geralt placed a barrier over the entrance, some form of Yrden, preventing her from leaving. When she ran for the exit, the barrier knocked her back. Geralt then punched her while wearing silver knuckles. As the sun rose, both she and Geralt raced for the crypt. Geralt got to it first and sealed himself inside.
The sun was out, and Adda had almost fully transformed from a striga to a girl. Geralt slowly approached to examine her and ensure his efforts had been fruitful. She turned around and slashed his throat with her claws. Geralt bit her neck to get her off of him and then passed out.
The young girl had later been sent to the Temple of Melitele be treated by the priestesses of Melitele. They will help her learn to live like a human being, after years of living as creature. The citizens of Temeria never knew who was really behind the numerous deaths. With this, Triss spread the word that the culprit was a Brukolak, against whom the tycoon Ostrit had heroically fallen.
Notes
In the book when the curse is lifted, Adda's hair turns white as a side effect. In Netflix's The Witcher she has brown hair but it doesn't turn white like in the novel.
The series represents a kind of contrasting figure of Adda with Yennefer: scenes show the chronology between Adda and Yennefer, in which each of them transforms - screaming - from her "monstrous" and hunchbacked state to a beautiful woman. Nothing about Yennefer's early years is presented in the novels.