Leo
No, I never underwent mutations but, I'm still a Witcher damnit!
- Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:Leo voice line.mp3
Leo was one of the many young orphans of the Second Nilfgaard War. Vesemir took him under his wing at Kaer Morhen and began training him as a witcher around the year 1264. Though Leo never underwent the mutations necessary to become a full witcher, he was determined and enthusiastic about mastering the craft, displaying a genuine eagerness to embrace the witcher's path.
Quick Answers
Biography
Early Life
Leo was an orphan of the Second Northern War who was discovered by Vesemir and brought to Kaer Morhen to begin training as a witcher. While he did not undergo the mutations, Eskel noted that Leo had completed The Choice, an important trial for aspiring witchers. Vesemir also arranged for Leo to train with both Eskel and Lambert.
In 1270, when Geralt returned to Kaer Morhen, he witnessed one of Leo's training sessions with Eskel. Leo himself later recounted his training with Lambert, mentioning how the older witcher always bested him in sparring matches but consistently encouraged him, praising his potential.
Shortly after Geralt's return, Salamandra launched an attack on Kaer Morhen. During the battle, Leo fought alongside his mentors but was tragically killed by the Professor, who fatally shot him. Leo died in Geralt's arms.
Leo's body was burned as a witcher's, and a shrine was made along the banks of the Gwenllech River, where the witchers honored his memory.
Associated quests
Dead Hand of the Past
Defending Kaer Morhen
Witchers' Secrets
Journal entry
Leo is the youngest of Kaer Morhen's residents. He's not a full witcher — though he has completed his training, he was not subjected to mutation. Leo comes across as a hot-headed whelp, but is also kind-hearted and good.
It appears that Leo is somewhat fascinated with me. He has heard the ballads about the White Wolf and now holds me in high regard.
Leo was killed by the Professor, one of the leaders of the assault on Kaer Morhen. The boy was too hasty and inexperienced. I wasn't able to help him, even though I was right beside him.
I saw Leo's face again — this time on a specter. It reminded me that I failed in the cellars of Kaer Morhen.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, he was mentioned in conversations with other characters, such as one with Vesemir. He also had a cenotaph to the south of Kaer Morhen. Upon its discovery, Geralt will have said: "Leo's grave... A senseless death, could've been avoided."
Notes
Leo's funeral
The Prologue ends with Leo's funeral pyre, set upon the hill in the Kaer Morhen valley, attended by Vesemir, Lambert, Eskel, Triss and Geralt.
Leo appears only in The Witcher and not in any of Andrzej Sapkowski's books.
Over the course of the game Geralt makes multiple remarks that Leo was a friend of his and is deeply saddened of the boy's fate.
Leo can not use the Signs because he broke his fingers during training.
While he had been in fights, Leo had never killed a man before.