Temple Quarter
The uprising of the non-humans has changed the Temple Quarter of Vizima beyond recognition. Fires rage everywhere and some streets are blocked by makeshift barricades. In many places the Scoia'tael clash with the Temerian army and knights of the Order. Many of the inhabitants have fled to the swamps, others hide in cellars and houses, praying for a quick end to the rioting. All kinds of missionaries and evangelists are taking advantage of the situation, preaching about divine wrath and the imminent end of the world.
Journal entry
The Temple Quarter of Vizima is strangely reminiscent of a quarrelsome, dirty prostitute, who — despite her disagreeable appearance and personality — remains somehow alluring. This may be because of the uncomplicated, illicit entertainment it offers — always a temptation. Beggars, shady characters, scowling poor folk, frustrated nonhumans and, of course, "ladies" occupy every corner. Recently, Vizima's Temple Quarter was cut off from the rest of the world by the threat of an epidemic. The few City Guard patrols that come here try not to venture too far into the quarter's dark alleys, where brutal deeds take place each night. At the center of Vizima's Temple Quarter stands St. Lebioda's Hospital (previously a temple of Melitele), the only place of solace for the poor and plague victims. Alongside the hospital stand the headquarters of the Order of the Flaming Rose, which tries to combat local crime and the monsters creeping in from the sewers and the cemetery.
Locations
Temple Quarter aerial view from Dike gate
Temple Quarter burning
Vizima cemetery
Vizima dungeon
The cloister of the Order of the Flaming Rose on Temple Square
Raymond Maarloeve, the detective's house on the corner of Harbor Street and Roper Street.
St. Lebioda's Hospital, formerly the Temple of Melitele, harbors victims of the Plague.
Thaler's place
Merchant Street
Merchant Street
Shani's house
The Slums
The Hairy Bear
Ramsmeat's place
Eager Thighs brothel
The nonhuman district, "Little Mahakam"
Dwarven blacksmith shop
Dwarven blacksmith's house
Golan Vivaldi's house
Kalkstein's house
Gates
Gate to the dike
Gate to the Trade Quarter
Cemetery gates
North Gate to the Royal Quarter, locked throughout the game
Side Effects premium module
The Temple Quarter in Side Effects premium module is not quite the same as one might remember it from the main campaign. For one thing, the story in the module is set some time before the events in the game. For a complete list of Temple Quarter locations see the Locations in Side Effects.
Destinations from here
The cemetery
The dike
The sewers
The Trade Quarter
Vizima Royal Quarter, which is off-limits for the duration of the game.
Old Vizima, insofar as there is a gate, but it remains locked whenever the gate to the Temple Quarter from the Dike is open.
Notable people
Carmen
Dandelion
Golan Vivaldi
Jethro
Kalkstein
Ramsmeat
Raymond Maarloeve
Shani
Siegfried of Denesle
Thaler
Vincent Meis
Zoltan Chivay
Bootblack
City Guard
Grandma
Gravedigger
Hildegard Zollstock
Novice nun
Herbs
Berbercane
Celandine, cemetery
Crow's eye, cemetery
Hellebore
Honeysuckle, cemetery
Sewants, cemetery
Verbena
Wolf's aloe
Notes
The Temple Quarter is accessible throughout Chapter III, where some changes took place:
new houses are open, e.g. the one near the antiquary
known houses have new inhabitants (e.g. the dectetives house) or are abandoned (Thalers house)
all containers have been refilled with known or new loot
new quests are available e.g. from Siegfried at his new post in front of the cloister, the dentist in his house or in the streets and a nurse in the hospital garden
Kalksteins laboratory is connected with other maps through the new teleporter network
the cemetery spawns new monsters