Wyvern
Wyverns (Elder Speech: Vyverne) are an endangered species of ornithosaur with snake-like necks and long tails that end in a venomous trident, adorned almost fully in dark scales. Their menacing teeth allow the creature to swoop down from the sky, easily snatch their prey and carry it off to their nest, not caring if it is a sheep or a man.
Quick Answers
The Witcher
In the game, wyverns do not appear until Chapter II, where they are initially restricted to Wyvern Island in the northern part of the swamp.
Journal Bestiary entry
"Wyverns are unlucky to be frequently mistaken for dragons. Seeing a reptile approaching a flock of sheep, peasants panic. They expect it to breathe fire, massacre everyone and abduct the local virgins. While it is true that wyverns hunt sheep, they neither breathe fire nor lay waste to whole villages. And they are completely indifferent to virgins."
Monsterbook
Developer CD PROJEKT RED's characterization of the wyvern taken from the Monsterbook which was enclosed with the Collector's Edition of the computer game "The Witcher"​ for Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic:
Ordinary folk often mistake wyverns for dragons. Witchers, however, immediately recognize these flying lizards, which tread upon the ground on two heavily-muscled legs. They also know that when fighting this beast, they must avoid the venomous stinger at the end of its tail and its jaws that bristle with deadly teeth.
The concept for the wyvern emerged from the human fear of reptiles. With its flat head and long neck, the creature resembles a snake; its extended tail only strengthens this impression. The dinosaur-like hump on its back makes it all the more terrifying. The bright colors of the sketch immediately suggest a venomous creature. Thin, long spikes seem to protrude directly from its curved spine, and along with the beast's general posture serve to emphasize its malicious and treacherous nature.
If you are not a witcher, you had better not mess with the wyvern.
On one of his quests, Geralt has a chance to fight alongside a group of these beasts. It is a pleasure to witness the destruction they spread amongst foes unfamiliar with the ways of fighting these fearsome creatures.
Location
Swamp
Lakeside
Fields
Kaer Morhen valley (In The Price of Neutrality premium module)
Sources
In Chapter III, Geralt can talk with a Townswoman sitting at The New Narakort. She is blonde and wearing a green dress with a yellow shirt, telling him she is in the mood to spin a tale but she is thirsty. Depending on her mood, she will ask for "a mug of beer" or milk, informing Geralt about Basilisks, Wyverns and eventually Archespores.
Geralt must exit and then re-enter the inn (or meditate) after each tale to speak to her again. After Geralt has acquired all the entries she knows about, she will still ask for milk and beer but will not part with any new tales or journal entries.
Ornithosaurs
Notes
Their remains will contain Wyvern meat with or without their bestiary entry.
The Wyvern Contract requires three wyvern steaks.
Hungry Like a Wolf (The Price of Neutrality premium module) also requires three wyvern steaks.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
A bestiary entry can technically be obtained by reading Death From Above, but the book doesn't appear during gameplay.
Bestiary entry
Most dangerous of all are the royal wyverns. Or, as they're called in some circles, the royal pains in the arse.– Albina Tottelkampf, lecturer in natural sciences at Aretuza
Wyverns are often mistaken for dragons, and, though they are much smaller than their more famous kin and do not breathe fire, they are likewise extremely dangerous monsters. Especially feared are the so-called royal wyverns who, like their namesake monarchs, are exceptionally ornery and extremely deadly.
Unobtainable without reading the book:
A wyvern will usually attack from the air, aiming to knock its prey down with its wings. After landing it will attack with its tooth-filled beak, trying to draw attention away from its most dangerous weapon: the stinger found at the end of its long tail. A strike from this carries the risk of poisoning from powerful toxins. Even a witcher's body experiences wrenching pain when injected with wyvern venom, and so it is worth preparing oneself with suitable potions ahead of time.
Combat tactics
Wyverns are quite venomous, they are able to spit their venom from a distance and even inject it directly into its victim through the stinger on the end of its long tail, the use of Golden Oriole can prevent it from incapacitating you. They will fly around their prey, well beyond crossbow range, before they will swoop down at break neck speeds in an attempt to claw at their victim.
Aard and Grapeshot can bring a wyvern to the ground, though they are tough enough to be resistant to crossbow bolts, but other more lethal munitions can force it to the ground.
Once on the ground a wyvern will prefer to strike with the talons on its feet, its teeth and its tail. It is possible to parry the bites, but if unsuccessful the consequences can be deadly. The don't appear to be very good at dodging while on the ground; an unending series of Fast attacks has been seen to keep them off balance so they don't attack right to the point that they die.
Associated quests
Contract: Patrol Gone Missing
Contract: Phantom of the Trade Route
Get Junior (dependent)
Scavenger Hunt: Griffin School Gear
The Most Truest of Basilisks
Notes
In Time of Contempt, Ciri kills one as it escapes from its cage while in Gors Velen.