Golan Vivaldi
Golan Vivaldi was a dwarf and part of the Vivaldi family, a well-known family of dwarven financiers and bankers. He ran one of their branches in the Trade Quarter of Vizima.
History
Director of the Vizima Branch
Golan Vivaldi was born into the Vivaldi banking family and eventually rose to run their Vizima branch, taking over from Trumi Vivaldi. During his time managing the branch, he had many business dealings with the city's humans. Through these dealings, he saw them at their worst, which led him to develop a hatred for humans. Besides this, he also had connections with the Scoia'tael units under the command of Yaevinn, though he did not hold a favorable view of them either.
Golan also owned a collection of books, including The Secret Gates and Ain Soph Aur.
At some point before the Vizima Rebellion, the Vizima branch of the Vivaldi Bank experienced financial difficulties, which were exploited by some humans to perform a hostile takeover. This left Golan to live in poverty and bitterness in Vizima's Temple Quarter Nonhuman district.
One day, he was visited at his home by the Witcher Geralt of Rivia, who was investigating a possible connection between Golan and the Salamandra criminal organization. During the investigation, Yaevinn asked Geralt to deliver a letter to Golan, requesting financial assistance. However, after receiving the letter, Golan sent a reply to the elf, denying the request as he did not support the Scoia'tael cause.
Initially, Golan was a suspect and hostile toward Geralt, but he was eventually cleared by the witcher. In return, Golan provided Geralt with information about Azar Javed, the leader of Salamandra. He told Geralt that he recognized Azar's name from old files and that Azar had once paid tuition to the Ban Ard Academy before being expelled for taking an interest in dark magic.
Arrest
If Geralt had killed Scoia'tael in the Outskirts: Golan was arrested by the City Guard after they, alongside Haren Brogg, ambushed what remained of a Scoia'tael unit in the city's outskirts. Among those captured was Golan's nephew, who, before being hanged, admitted to contacting his uncle.
At that moment, Geralt walked into Golan's house and witnessed the arrest. Golan was then transported to the city dungeon. Luckily for him, his bail was paid by the witcher, and he was released. Out of gratitude, Golan gave Geralt the books he was looking for.
Scoia'tael Aid
Yaevinn learned of the hostile takeover of the Vivaldi Bank and set a plan in motion. His Scoia'tael unit would rob the bank and steal a number of documents that, when delivered to Golan, would allow him to reclaim ownership of the bank. Regardless of how the heist played out, Yaevinn managed to escape with the necessary documents and brought them to Golan.
Despite his reservations about the Scoia'tael, Golan allowed Yaevinn to stay at his home.
Although he would be able to regain control of the bank in time, he still refused to financially support the Scoia'tael. As a result, he was branded a traitor by them.
When the Viziman Uprising broke out, Golan took shelter with several others in a house in the Temple Quarter, hiding from both the Scoia'tael and the Order of the Flaming Rose.
Return of Control
Eventually, he regained control of the Vivaldi Bank in Vizima. As a token of gratitude for the witcher's involvement, he granted Geralt unlimited credit at the Vivaldi Bank and instructed all bank agents to inform the witcher of this if they came across him.
He also sent Igor Vivaldi to check on the profitability of Vergen's mine.
At one point, he employed the Hogge sisters at his branch, but they eventually left.
Associated quests
Suspect: Vivaldi
Worth its Weight in Gold
A Mysterious Tower
Monoliths
Gold Rush, indirectly
Journal entry
Golan Vivaldi is a dwarf who's very touchy about his race. The Vivaldis are financiers and one of their banks is located in Vizima's Trade Quarter.
The money for the Professor's bail came from Vivaldi's bank. That's how the criminal walked free.
Vivaldi lost control of the family business. There was a hostile takeover and the bank is now controlled by human owners. That explains the dwarf's bitterness as well as his poverty.
The dwarf hates humans. Apparently, in doing business with them, he's had a chance to see them at their worst.
Vivaldi has relations with nonhumans, including the persecuted Scoia'tael.
I unfairly suspected Vivaldi of financing Salamandra. The evidence indicates he is innocent.
Notes
During Chapter II, Vivaldi allows Geralt to sleep there for free any time.
In the Epilogue, Vivaldi shows up once more, in the safe house where he explains to Geralt that he must hide as he is seen as a traitor by both the Scoia'tael and the Order.